# NetworkX Developer Discussions:  July 30, 2020

In attendance: Jarrod, Kelly, Camille, Dan, Aric, Mridul, Eric, Ross, Stefan

## Topics

0. Pre-meeting discussions (meta meeting)

1. Introductions...

2. Any comments on review/guidelines, labels, triage of issuesissues, handling of PRs, etc.
   - PR/Review policy for core developers? Do we want to limit PRs from core devs in favor of labelling issues for first-time contributors?
   * Nx already has a lot of first-time contributors (pass throughs)
   * Emphasize ID'ing sprint topics as opposed to the "good first issue" route
   * A lot of cruft (esp. related to dependencies) - totally fine for cleanup
   * Eric - maybe do a pass of the issue tracker to ID good sprint candidates
     - Add a "sprint" label, or create a tracking issue? (slight preference for labeling)
 - Add a "Question" (or similar) label? Related: Add badge or some other link to stack overflow (SO)
   * e.g. `scikit-image` has a [dedicated forum](https://forum.image.sc/)
     - Joint board with other image processing software packages
     - Core dev commitment to forum: pretty minimal, most interaction is inter-user
     - Originally set up by ImageJ
   * Perhaps reach out to other network packages to perhaps combine efforts (similar to what scikit-image did)
   * Problem with SO: not exactly (always) friendly
     - Maybe don't want to explicit point people there...
 - Other label maintenance? (new additions or removals) https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels
     - Maintenance seems too generic (documentation? enhancement?)
     - "Not a defect", "Declined" are potentially similar? Maybe also "duplicate" can be rolled into one tag with these?
     - Are "enhancement" and "new feature" close enough to be one tag?
     - Can "needs review" be replaced by the standard workflow for pull requests?

#### Protip:
 - See everywhere that you're tagged (issues/pulls) on GH with:
   * github.com/pulls
   * github.com/issues

3. Sprints in August?  (we talked about Fridays --    informal, small, open zoom room to drop in as you wish) Is it better to have a couple hours where we commit to just that? -- we talked a little a bit ago about materials for sprints. was there more about that?
   - Tentative first (informal) "sprint" - Friday Aug. 7th, 12PM - 3PM EDT (9 - 12PM PDT)
   - e-meet details TBD (zoom, discord, meet+hackmd)
 
4. NXEPs... how do we make sure they don't just sit there?
   - NXEP 2 is really the test case - no real concrete procedure yet. Keep notes/feedback for how the process goes!

5. Roadmap toward v3.0   doc/developer/roadmap.rst
   - what items would you like to see addressed/changed in v3.0?
   - One goal is to make it easier to implement things in the future. What challenges are there? 
     * e.g. New additions (incorporating visualization) needs coverage from developers
     * scipy sparse graph
     * `convert_matrix.py` refactor: instead of `to/from` functions, have the formats potentially be a kwarg option
     * Many algorithms depend on node/edge properties - how are these consumed? with a "weight" function as in shortest_path? 
     * dispatching mechanism for nx data structures. That is, build an API so that data structures supporting that API could be used for our algorithms by dispatching calls to those data structures.
     * Is the array-form a property of the graph object or a separate object?
       - A keyword flag to handle conversion from graph objects to necessary array form for accelerated calculation
     * NX turbo (historical discussion)
       - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/1076
       - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/1076#issuecomment-37876456
       - https://gitter.im/networkx/GSoC_2015?at=54f4253e0cfa7291277d0f71
       - maybe we could use a decorator?
       - tied into how we generator graphs
       - https://github.com/UDST/pandana

6. CI: Add a CI check that links to the built documentation? I (Ross) know how to do this with CircleCI, but I'm sure there's a way to do it without adding a new CI service. 
    - Check readthedocs?

## Discussion

 - For a future meeting: discuss future summer of code (get Mridul's perspective)
 - Action item: contact other graph libraries about starting a network science forum
   * snap (stanford) Jure Leskovec at jure@cs.stanford.edu
   * SIAM network science conference, http://lists.siam.org/mailman/listinfo/siam-ns
   * Igraph, Gábor Csárdi https://igraph.discourse.group/ (they have CZI funding starting September 1 https://igraph.org)
   * graphtool, Tiago Peixoto https://graph-tool.skewed.de/mailing
   * cytoscape https://cytoscape.org/community.html
   * gephi? (not a lib really)
   * JUNG?
   * please add to the list...