# NetworkX Developer Discussions:  August 6th, 2020

In attendance: 

## Followup from last week

 - NX informal sprint, round 1:
   * Status of a sprint label?
   * Hackmd with details: https://hackmd.io/s7IdLCGOQByr-kS0HvxtPg

 - Label maintenance
   * Added Question label after generally positive feedback
   * Maintenance seems too generic (documentation? enhancement?)
   * "Not a defect", "Declined" are potentially similar? Maybe also "duplicate" can be rolled into one tag with these?
   * Are "enhancement" and "new feature" close enough to be one tag?
   * Can "needs review" be replaced by the standard workflow for pull requests?
     - General consensus: reduce the label count - all of the above seem reasonable
     - [scikit-image weekly summary utility](https://github.com/scikit-image/boilerplate-utils)

 - CI: Added CircleCI service for doc builds
   * Everyone check that you have access to the CircleCI account:
     1. Go to an open PR from the last week and click on the "Details" button of the CircleCI "build" description
     2. This should trigger a prompt for signing in - do so under the NetworkX organization
     3. Verify that you can see the dashboard, and try accessing the "Project Settings" in the upper-right corner of the app

   * **TODO** - work on moving from appveyor to github actions for windows
     - Add dependency installation (numpy/scipy/pygraphviz) to windows

## Topics

0. Pre-meeting discussions (meta meeting)

1. CircleCI configuration - anyone experienced with docker?
   * Currently we're relying on the vanilla (Debian) images provided by CircleCI for Python. In principle it would be much more reliable and save time on CI if we could use our own docker image with the necessary system dependencies (namely `graphviz` and various LaTeX tools). There may be a suitable container on DockerHub already, or we could `docker-compose` our own.

   * TODO put this Docker idea and other CI issues into a wishlist of some sort.

2. A `__str__` for graphs?
   * Just curious about whether this has been considered before/any previous     discussions on the topic
   * Currently, `__str__` is `return self.name`. Change to default `__repr__` fallback? Add message about nx.info?
     
3. More sprints?
  - PyData Global (11-15th Nov, online) (https://pydata.org/global2020/) ? (nice find Mridul)
    * requires a proposal, due Aug. 16th
    * Feedback from Eric on sprint experience would be very valuable
    * Probably want at least a certain number (2?) of core contributors present.

  - In the same vein: longer-term (semester-long? season long?) mentorship program? Follow up on this.
    * e.g. numfocus small developer grants, PSF Scientific WG
     
**Note: left this here from previous week as it seemed like a good thing to keep discussing. Please modify (or move to a future meeting agenda) as is fit**
        
4. Roadmap toward v3.0   doc/developer/roadmap.rst
   - what items would you like to see addressed/changed in v3.0?
   - One goal is to make it easier to implement things in the future. What challenges are there? 
     * e.g. New additions (incorporating visualization) needs coverage from developers
       [Camille?]
     * scipy sparse graph + (consider) PyData/Sparse [Stéfan and/or Søren]
     * `convert_matrix.py` refactor: instead of `to/from` functions, have the formats potentially be a kwarg option
     * Many algorithms depend on node/edge properties - how are these consumed? with a "weight" function as in shortest_path? [Dan]
     * dispatching mechanism for nx data structures. That is, build an API so that data structures supporting that API could be used for our algorithms by dispatching calls to those data structures.
       [S: Wait to see if Greg Lee is funded under CZI for developing dispatching for skimage?  If not urgent, we can re-use his work.]
     * Is the array-form a property of the graph object or a separate object?
       - A keyword flag to handle conversion from graph objects to necessary array form for accelerated calculation
     * NX turbo (historical discussion)
       - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/1076
       - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/1076#issuecomment-37876456
       - https://gitter.im/networkx/GSoC_2015?at=54f4253e0cfa7291277d0f71
       - maybe we could use a decorator?
       - tied into how we generator graphs
       - https://github.com/UDST/pandana
     * NumPy + SciPy as dependencies, and subsequent speed improvements (needs decision from group, thereafter Ross?)

## Discussion

**Note: left this here from previous week as it seemed like a good thing to keep discussing. Please modify (or move to a future meeting agenda) as is fit**
 - For a future meeting: discuss future summer of code (get Mridul's perspective)
 - Action item: contact other graph libraries about starting a network science forum
   * snap (stanford) Jure Leskovec at jure@cs.stanford.edu
   * SIAM network science conference, http://lists.siam.org/mailman/listinfo/siam-ns
   * Igraph, Gábor Csárdi https://igraph.discourse.group/ (they have CZI funding starting September 1 https://igraph.org)
   * graphtool, Tiago Peixoto https://graph-tool.skewed.de/mailing
   * cytoscape https://cytoscape.org/community.html
   * gephi? (not a lib really)
   * JUNG?
   * please add to the list...