# NetworkX Developer Discussions: Â October 15, 2020

In attendance: Dan, Jarrod, Ross, Mridul

## Topics

- Welcome and news

- NumFocus fiscal sponsorship application
  * Submitted on 10/12/2020 :tada: 
  * Should hear back by 11/5/2020

- CI updates
  * Disable pep8speaks bot now that linting action is activated?
  - Action item: Jarrod will disable

- Pydata global
  * Jarrod's talk
    - Prettifying NX examples (especially the ones in the presenation) would be helpful
  * Panels?
    - Have other attendees (e.g. Mridul, Dan) to the panels
    - Awaiting info about number of ppl we're allowed to have on panel
  * Sprint?
    - Still waiting on logistical info
    - Tag more sprintable issues
    - Also open issues in the notebooks repo

   **Still waiting on info about panels & sprints**

- Notebooks, examples, tutorials, etc.
  * Explore other options (binder badges, support different formats, testing)
  * Goal: draft PR of `myst-nb`
  * Sphinx page example: https://rossbar.github.io/notebooks-1/

- How to address questions on the issue tracker? Some ideas:
  * If you respond and feel answer is sufficient, close with a polite statement about re-opening with additional information to let the user know they are welcome to follow up
  * If the example is detailed and doesn't get much of a response, perhaps point the user to the mailing list.

## Discussion
