# NetworkX Developer Discussions: Â April 1st, 2021

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings)

**In attendance:** Kelly, Ross, Mridul, Dan, Jarrod +numfocus team

---

# Special meeting: NumFocus onboarding

---

## Welcome and news

## Topics

- CZI Grant proposal summary
  - LOI Due Tues. 3/30
  - **Action items**
    - [x] Dan will take the lead on the cytoscape CZI email chain
    - [x] Jarrod will take the lead w/ the WiNS/igraph proposal
    
- Mridul pinged WiNS about NX GSoC - have we heard anything?
    - Not yet.

Merge/discuss PRs:

## Discussion

 - NXEP 2: slice-able nodes/edges
   * Python dictionaries are now ordered: is Python adding sequence semantics to dictionaries? If not, why not? Would be good to find/start discussions on this in the python dev ML.