Notes for next meeting:  We didn't meet August 26, 2021 
Next meeting we should talk about:
- tidelift
- doc function titles: full path vs function name
- namespace and lazyload plans
- heap data structures in utils (?unify/improve/generalize?)
- CZI grant now official for 2022 and 2023.
- recent security Issues/PRs (should we add a label about security -- might that invite trouble)

==================================================
# NetworkX Developer Discussions: August 19th, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:**

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- GSoC:
  * End of official coding period: Aug. 23rd
  * End of program (students + mentors evaluations due): Aug 30th

- CZI Grant
  * We heard from CZI a couple of weeks ago. No public word is official. We aren't suppose to release results until they release them on ~ Aug 31 (can tell project team members).
  * [x] Need a jpg of the NetworkX logo for the CZI webpage
      * https://github.com/networkx/branding/tree/main/logo
      * https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/revitalizing-networkx-for-complex-network-analysis/
      * https://chanzuckerberg.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/networkx.png
  * [x] Need a single sentence of what is exciting about our project.
  
  
## Topics

- GSOC checkouts
  * Anything that needs e.g. reviewers?
  * Make sure students have everything they need to hit their desired milestones before
      * Things look good.

- numfocus fiscal sponsor rates
    - rates up to 15% for corporate and govt grants.  We need to sign the agreement again. We should check other options. Academic is higher but other orgs might have lower.
    - Let's talk about this in a meeting in early sept.

- Should we turn off the "first contributor" approve and run? How is it working for you?
    - review way to make sure things don't get stuck

- Should we give some users permissions to triage or something similar? does it encourage more connection?
    - JM will act on this before next week (hopefully)
    - Let's giev the GSOC people triage rights for github.

## Discussion

- greedy_modularity_communities function is getting a lot of action (bugs) 
    - Let's fix the 2nd bug (1st has been fixed).  And we should probably do a 2.6.3 release given the amount of traffic on this function that we seem to have broken.