# NetworkX Developer Discussions: Â March 25th, 2021

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings)

**In attendance:** Ross, Jarrod, Dan, Kelly, Mridul, Eric

## Welcome and news

- GraphXD recap

## Topics

- Followup from last week:
  - Fix Mridul + Kelly's permissions so their reviews show up
  - networkx.groups.io - make it externally email-able

- CZI Grant proposal status(es)
  - LOI Due Tues. 3/30
  - **Action items**
    - Dan will take the lead on the cytoscape CZI email chain
    - Jarrod will take the lead w/ the WiNS/igraph proposal
  * snapshot of the current landscape
    * DEI track
      - igraph has proposed a network science collaboration w/ WiNS
    * CZI round 4
      - cytoscape proto-proposal (need more info)
      - Mridul's proposal in gitlab
  * Proposal outline in gitlab - PR from Mridul open, please review
  * Coordination with cytoscape
    - Respond to cytoscape to get better idea of scope of their proposal/idea
      * Dan will draft a response
- Coordination with igraph/WiNS
  - Mridul will reach out to WiNS about GSoC
    * Propose setting up conference call sometime in the future (not necessarily about grant)
  - DEI grant
    - Stefan + Jarrod have responded

Merge/discuss PRs:
 - [ ] https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4602: Rm random sampling from sets (deprecated in Python 3.9)
 - [ ] https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4633: Add gallery example with custom node icons

## Discussion

 - NXEP 2: slice-able nodes/edges
   * Python dictionaries are now ordered: is Python adding sequence semantics to dictionaries? If not, why not? Would be good to find/start discussions on this in the python dev ML.