# NetworkX Developer Discussions: May 27th, 2020
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Eric, Ross, Jarrod, Kelly, Dan, Mridul, Stefan

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- CZI Grant
  * [x] **MAY 19, 2021 Full Applications**
  * late JULY 2021 Earliest notification of decisions
  * SEPTEMBER 1, 2021 Earliest start date
  
- 2.6 release
  * End of May, 2021
  
## Topics

 - 2.6 Release

 - Developer meetings
   * Further discussion on opening to community (e.g. announcing on mailing list)?
   * Use some meetings or chunk of meeting time as joint-work "sprints"?
   
 - GSoC catchups (if any students are around)
   * Questions/comments? Everyone feeling like their in a good place to get started in early June?

## Discussion

Dev meetings: 

- Start with GSoC students. Don't make them feel like they _have_ to come, but more just an invite.
- Link shouldn't be publicly available. However, invite them to come by asking people to get in touch with X to get the Zoom link.

Jarrod: Lots of big discussions, but now we have more time to work. We will alternate triage/sprints with discussion meetings.

Dan: We previously had too many big items to discuss, so now it's a good time to revive this practice.

Ross: After 2.6 release, do triage party :tada:. 

### GSoC

Vadim: we have connected by email, have a meeting time set for Friday morning EST. First mentor meeting will be 1 week from tomorrow.

### v2.6

Jarrod: Last night looked at SciPy stuff. Pulling out some power iteration because SciPy sparse has it. Timing on our implementation is a lot less consistent. [PR#4847]

[PR#4847]: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4847

Jarrod: `nx.adj_matrix ` and `nx.adjacency_matrix` -- one of these should be removed? 

Ross: This might be useful for a v2.7. Having 2.6 out with numpy and scipy as a dependency might be good for getting feedback, esp. from users who expect pure Python

Jarrod: Dan/Mridul, can you review these PRs tonight or tomorrow? (Yes)

Jarrod: One of the centrality functions ([PR#4841]) returns dictionaries, another other returns arrays. When we get array back, we don't know order of nodes. 

Eric: I vote dict --> can be passed into pandas Series constructor. 

Jarrod: The array version will go.

[PR#4841]: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4841

Dan's got a PR that Mridul is reviewing. Looks ready to go -- MultiGraph Input issue. ([PR#4823]) Main question -- is this the right interface? Used to be that "Dict of Dict --> MultiGraph --> Dict of Dict" was not feasible previously.

Default: Try most complicated to least complicated until error shows up.

Hit merge? Wait a day?

Jarrod: It's _at best_ tonight before release happens. 

Ross: Just make sure that the rendered docstring looks ok.

Dan: Be sure to put comment in. 

Dan: A parameter that hasn't been used in over 9 years... gives us Python syntax error. [PR#4843]. Tests are added in. This line is finally covered :smile:.

Jarrod: PR#4842 -- branch is up-to-date with main, requirements are correct, CircleCI builds using old config and old requirements file... don't know how this happened. 

Ross: CircleCI just did a release of features last night; did they break themselves? 

Jarrod: Restarted -- but still installs things like old Sphinx and Cartopy. 

Ross: There may be some infra changes with bugs introduced. 

Jarrod: Just have to go through PRs, will touch base with Dan.

[PR#4823]: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4823

[PR#4843]: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4843

[PR#4842]: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4842

## Other matters

Ross: Organizing workshop with students from Senegal, "Africa MSc in Machine Intelligence" program.

These students use scientific Python. Their workflows aren't usually conducive to contributing. Workshop is to introduce what open source contrib looks like. Get them to submit a basic PR. https://bids-numpy.github.io/workshop_site_AIMS_2021/

Hoping to get mentors from various libraries. 

- Thu: Introduce project - 10 min., nothing formal
- Fri: Mentored sprint - 1 hr. Hand-hold a bunch of 3-5 students to get their first PR. 

These students have great math background, strong theoretical ML background, computation is a mix. For some, their first exposure to computing is through this program. 10% newcomers to scientific computing, vast majority are used to it but not necessarily expert/proficient, top 10% are probably really good coders.

Level of contribution - docstring or some small changes.

Students:

1. Have all forked a repo
2. Have GitHub

They have some bg knowledge. Ross will do more in-depth. 

Some students might struggle a bit. 
