# NetworkX Developer Discussions: September 30th, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Jarrod Millman, Dan Schult, Mridul Seth, St√©fan van der Walt

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX2.7 (12/31/21) and 3.0 (2/28/22)

### Action items from last week
 - [x] Add completed GSoC projects to developer docs (Ross, Mridul)
   - [x] Merge PR with bullet-points for all projects
   - [x] Create issue and @-mention original project authors if they want to expand on the bullet points (add summary, link to blog posts, etc.)
 - [ ] Start our 3-line namespace NXEP (Ross)

## Topics

- https://discuss.scientific-python.org/ : Discourse forum (Python, Numba, Bokeh, Matplotlib use it) that can replace our mailing list.  Can be used via web or email.
    - Try this out with dev-discuss first, then move google groups nx-discuss to discourse.
     
- https://discourse.mozilla.org/t/how-do-i-use-discourse-via-email/15279
- 
## Discussion

### Summary of NumFOCUS Fiscal Sponsorship Services
