# NetworkX Developer Discussions: September 2nd, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Kelly, Dan, Ross, Jarrod

## Welcome and news

 - :tada: CZI grant officially announced :tada:
   * 2022-2023

## Important dates/deadlines

## Topics

- NX meeting calendar invite
  * Add for the Fall semester
    - A few additional emails to add/modify

- GSoC wrapup
  * Everybody did their final paperwork I think :)
  * Post-GSoC activities
    - Triage rights/meeting invites for GSoC students. Other onboarding ideas/activites?
    - Update mentored projects page in docs
    - "Officially" publish NX-guides
      * Remove warning banner
      * A bit of toctree re-org to make things more accessible

- Numfocus
  * Fiscal sponsorship rates
    - rates up to 15% for corporate and govt grants.  We need to sign the agreement again. We should check other options. Academic is higher but other orgs might have lower.
  * We've been contacted about support for "community health" and whether we have ideas for anything that numfocus can help support. Ideas?
  * Tidelift. Details:
    - [lifter agreement](https://docs.tidelift.com/article/57-lifter-agreement)
    - [code of conduct](https://docs.tidelift.com/article/47-code-of-conduct)
    - [security details](https://tidelift.com/about/lifter-tasks?hsCtaTracking=de6f8e9f-dddd-45dc-adb2-c5bbf2926282%7C53da10d7-020e-42e1-aa55-f2e46cc16354#security)
    - Ask Sebastian (seberg) to come give a look at his experience as NumPy's tidelift "liaison"
    
- recent security Issues/PRs (should we add a label about security -- might that invite trouble)
  * Generally trending against adding an explicit security label
    
- namespace and lazyload plans
  * Discuss in more detail next week (move this up the list)
    
- doc function titles: full path vs function name
  * One idea: modify base autosummary template to only use object name instead of full path. See [#5049](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5049)
    - Example page (notice sidebar and article titles in refguide): https://2561-890377-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/doc/build/html/reference/generated/networkx.generators.atlas.graph_atlas.html#networkx.generators.atlas.graph_atlas
  * Open some issues/feature requests to the theme

- Should we turn off the "first contributor" approve and run? How is it working for you?
  * [Details from GH](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/managing-repository-settings/disabling-or-limiting-github-actions-for-a-repository#configuring-required-approval-for-workflows-from-public-forks) - 3 options:
    - First time contributors new to GH
    - First time contributors
    - All outside contributors

   - Let's make the permissions: "First time contributors new to GH"
  
    Notably, it doesn't seem possible to just deactivate it outright.
    
- greedy_modularity_communities function is getting a lot of action (bugs) 
  - Proposed plan:
    * Fix 2nd bug:
      - Issues: [#4992](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/4992) and [#5026](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5026), but most relevant conversation on proposed fix in [PR #5000](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5000)
      * Make a 2.6.3 release (or wait til 2.7? RC probably coming soon - let's see what happens over the next couple weeks)
  - Related: heap data structures in utils (?unify/improve/generalize?)

## Discussion

