# NetworkX Developer Discussions: December 2nd, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:**

- Ross
- Stefan
- Jarrod
- Eric
- Dan

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX2.7 (12/31/21) and 3.0 (2/28/22)
    - Would like to get Sparse stuff in first.
    - Jarrod: We may need to kick back 2.7 for a month.
    - There's a bunch of things Jarrod would like to do on 2.7.
    - Would like to get lazy loading in ([name=Dan]), Ross' PR ([name=Ross]), and Sparse ([name=Jarrod]).
    - Ross and Jarrod could get a sprint in - at least to get linalg into a better shape.
    - Ross: Will have to do multiple passes.
    - nx2.7 will depend on scipy1.8
    - Better to have 3.0 stabilize on dependencies.

## Topics

- NumFOCUS financials
  * Check on P&L spreadsheet in NumFOCUS shared drive [name=Ross]
    * Two pings, haven't heard back yet - will try again this week
  * Tidelift followup [name=Dan] -- they have not been responding. Not in their interest to respond.
  
- `scipy.sparse` adoption
  * scipy.sparse array interface has been merged! Will be available in v1.8
  * A lot of other sparse cleanups on the way
    - Ross: Trying to keep it small, but I feel bad for soaking up everyone's review time - LMK if it's burdensome!
    - Ross has been reading code, which has led to other PRs.

- Test suite is failing on numpy rc - no idea why (yet) [name=Ross]
  * Layout function that involves np.sum
  * Can't replicate locally, but consistent failure in the ubuntu CI job
  * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5202

- Lazy importing follow-up: do we want to try for 2.7?
    - [name=Dan] to follow up on PR. 

- Milestone review/sprint?
    - Make sure that the easy clean-ups are done.
    - No user has used algebraic connectivity... would have gotten an import error. Fairly confident that algebraic connectivity is not of interest.
    - We may want to have a user survey up?

- Hypergraph
    - Is this something we want to incorporate?
    - Don't have a big need seen for hypergraph interface (Dan).
    - Would be nice to know what we're designing it to do. 
    - [(GitHub repo)](https://github.com/ComplexGroupInteractions/xgi)


## Discussion

- Dan: Milestone PRs that come in?
    - Ross: Have been milestone-ing things if they are reasonable. These are not usually treated as hard deadlines.
    - 