# NetworkX Developer Discussions: Â March 18th, 2021

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings)

**In attendance:** Jarrod, Dan, Ross, Mridul, Stefan, Kelly

## Welcome and news

- GraphXD: Next Tuesday, 3/23/21 10AM - 3PM PDT - https://bids.berkeley.edu/events/graphxd-2021
  * 10AM - Jarrod's talk
  * 12PM - Mridul's tutorial
  * 2PM - General discussion/community building

## Topics

- NumFOCUS: fill out poll to schedule time for onboarding call
  * Ross will ping Arliss to see if NumFocus can accomodate a 10AM Thursday slot

- GSoC
  * Fill out mentor form: https://forms.gle/ewnGzzQUqp5t9URG6
  * Next steps?
    - Review PRs as normal
    - Announce that NX is participating
      * WiNS mailing list? (Mridul will contact them)

- CZI Grant proposal
  * snapshot of the current landscape
    * DEI track
      - igraph has proposed a network science collaboration w/ WiNS
    * CZI round 4
      - cytoscape proto-proposal (need more info)
      - Mridul's proposal in gitlab
  * Proposal outline in gitlab - PR from Mridul open, please review
  * Coordination with cytoscape
    - Respond to cytoscape to get better idea of scope of their proposal/idea
      * Dan will draft a response
  * Coordination with igraph/WiNS
    - Mridul will reach out to WiNS about GSoC
      * Propose setting up conference call sometime in the future (not necessarily about grant)
    - DEI grant
      - Stefan + Jarrod have responded

Merge/discuss PRs:
 - [ ] https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4602: Rm random sampling from sets (deprecated in Python 3.9)
 - [ ] https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4633: Add gallery example with custom node icons

## Discussion

 - Fix Mridul + Kelly's permissions so their reviews show up
 - networkx.groups.io - make it externally email-able