# NetworkX Developer Discussions: May 6th, 2021

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings)

**In attendance:** Eric, Kelly, Ross, Jarrod, Dan, Mridul

## Welcome and news

 - :tada: We've been (preliminarily) granted our requested GSoC allotment :tada:

## Important dates/deadlines

- CZI Grant
  * [ ] May 10, 2021 NumFOCUS proposal review (esp. Budget)
  * **MAY 19, 2021 Full Applications**
  * late JULY 2021 Earliest notification of decisions
  * SEPTEMBER 1, 2021 Earliest start date
  
- 2.6 release
  * End of May, 2021
  
## Topics

- CZI Proposal

- GSoC: Next steps

- `decorator` discussion
  * More issues with dependency re: requirements for rolling-release pkg management. Bumps up the priority of having a stable, long-term solution
  * Update from Kelly (with awesome import-time *and* runtime profiling!)

## Discussion

### Decorator

- KB: two approaches.
    - One is ready to go (dynamically written code that is compiled)
    - New approach: closures to make functions on the fly. It is now getting complicated.
    - Three times are important:
        - Import time: new approach is fastest. Current approach is already faster than decorator.
        - First function call time.
        - Subsequent function call time.
        - New approach is in the middle-ground, skip compilation step.
    - No complexity is avoided here.
    - Long-haul speed is most important over first few calls.
    - Most people won't notice because of microsecond scale.
    - Compiled version is the fastest long-haul.
- RB: Get rid of decorator (preferred). The alternative is a complex pinning string in requirements.txt file. 
- KB: There is also the hard fork option (copy functionality being used).
- RB: This issue should be milestoned for 2.6.

### GSoC


- MS: Just waiting for Google to officially announce them. (17 May should be the date.)
- DS: Proposals we didn't go after, none of them passed Google's screening.
- MS: As part of proposal, need to submit documents that prove student status, either that or they just withdrew.
- MS: Proposals that are no longer available were really just low-effort proposals.
- RB: We aren't doing anything for Season of Docs? (That's right.)
- MS: We meet students on 20 May. (17 May is when we hear from Google.)

### Grant 

- JM: Make sure everyone is aware of the documentation.
- JM: MS & DS - when to meet? Same time tomorrow is fine (10-11 am pacific).
- JM: Need to let NumFOCUS know on Monday to review budget.
- DS: Need to talk about funding, a bit of leftover in salary, might want to move it around.
- MS: If there is $$ left, write that in for Outreachy. JHub is doing this too. (~6-7 interns budgeted)
- JM: WiNS - some contact, could do something through them?
- JM: If we have the $$, can deal with this later. Can re-direct it later.
- MS: They are a bit more academic...

## Action Items

- JM: Will send email, invite DS/MS to call.
- 2.6 release - will need to work on.
- 


### 