# NetworkX Developer Discussions: May 20th, 2020
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings)

**In attendance:** Ross, Jarrod, Dan, Eric, Mridul, Kelly, Harshal, Dimitrios, Matthew, Vadim



## Welcome and news

 - :tada: Welcome GSoC Students :tada:
   * Harshal Dupare: UTC + 5:30 <-- Ross & Mridul & Dan
   * Dimitrios Papageorgiou: EET (UTC + 2)   <-- Mridul & Dan
   * Matthew Schwennesen: EST (UTC - 5) <-- Dan  & Kelly
   * Vadim Abzalov: UTC + 3 <-- Eric (~~email redacted for archiving~~) + Ross

Mentor Specialties:

- Mridul: community detection and notebooks.
- Ross: Infrastructure for notebooks
- Eric: Pedagogy
- Dan: TSP and community detection
- Kelly: TSP

## Important dates/deadlines

- CZI Grant
  * [x] **MAY 19, 2021 Full Applications**
  * late JULY 2021 Earliest notification of decisions
  * SEPTEMBER 1, 2021 Earliest start date
  
- 2.6 release
  * End of May, 2021
  
## Topics

- GSoC: Welcome students!

- SPEC Core Project

## Discussion

### CZI grant

Submitted! This will help develop NetworkX community + backend development.

### GSoC

Mridul: Any questions, logistics, about the projects.

Matt: Zoom meeting -- multiple events, is this a weekly meeting?

Ross: Community meeting notes are on HackMD. It happens every week. Anyone who has topic that they want to talk about can add a topic there. That drives what we talk about each week. For GSoC students, it would be great if you want to attend, but you don't have to. We will set up individual meetings for mentors and GSoC projects.

Mridul: We're flexible w.r.t. project. Two proposals for notebooks repository (Harshal and Vadim). If you want to work on, for example, another community detection algo, or implement another algo that they fancy, please feel free to do it. 

Ross: Split out into breakout rooms to do quick chat and do some organization at the end. 

Projects!

Matt: TSP algorithms. There's a bunch implemented for simple graphs; project will be approximation that works on directed graphs. Algo was first published in 2010, one of the accurate approximations known for DiGraph version of problem.

Dimitrios: Louvain algorithm. Read original paper. Based on paper results it's fast and good performance. Previous attempts to implement Louvain were closed. There is also a python-louvain library. Paper has own implementation in C/C++. Plenty of material to look through to make it native to NetworkX.

Vadim: Algorithms on coloring. Want to get a deeper understanding. Want to create notebook tutorials.

Harshal: Notebooks and tutorials to explain communities. Want to cover large amounts of ...? Want to try to implement Leiden algorithm.

180 hrs total, how much interaction you'd like, etc.
Break-out: find a time where primary mentor and student can setup a 1-per-week zoom call for 1 hr. 

### 2.6 Release

Jarrod: Coming up soon. Last of v2 releases. Next is 3.0. CZI grant last year allowed us to do organizational cleanup. Gone through code, it's been old code, done a lot of cleanup. 2.6 release is in a couple of weeks, mostly deletion of old code. Release candidate will go out, likely on Monday. Lots of churn, so wait 1-2 weeks.

Dimitrios' PR is in, Harshal's simplex PRs are in. Vadim's one is tricky because it interfaces with another library, and the other library team needs to review it (and it's a bit of a slow process). Matt's one is in. 

### SPEC Core Project

"Scientific Python Ecosystem Coordination". Context: We want NetworkX to be a core project.

Link: scientific-python.org/specs

Ross: What is the SPEC process? "Scientific Python Ecosystem" refers to the collection of packages that people use in scientific computing projects. NumPy, SciPy, etc. Other projects e.g. PyMC3 for Bayesian stats. Projects are independent; users use them together; want user experience to be more seamless. Coordinate developers to try to adopt good practices that make the projects more cohesive. Each project does have its own governance; want to strike balance between cohesion. 

SPEC - are documents that are like PEPs: describe X, discussion, public + open decision-making process. SPECs are less detail-oriented. 

Some libraries are special, e.g. NumPy is _really_ core. Want to get "core" projects together, if these projects push for an idea, want to signal to the community that this is something very important. Today, we want to discuss whether NetworkX is a core project or not, which would get NX endorsing ideas. This means we would have to be plugged into what's happening with SPECs. Have to know when new SPECs come out, take an active role in reviewing those documents, participating in discussions, pushing ideas forward or pushing back if we disagree with them or modifying them. Burden on us is relatively low. Ross is already the SPEC liaison; he would add SPEC ideas to agenda.

Jarrod: Stephan and myself are also involved. No coercion involved. PR to NetworkX repo if we say yes. 

Eric: Is Quansight involved? Yes. Ralf, Melissa, Matthias are all involved.

TODO: Jarrod will send email out. We approve/thumbs up.
