# NetworkX Developer Discussions: August 11th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Kelly, Juanita, Ross, Jarrod

## Welcome and news


## Important dates/deadlines

- NX 3.0 release: late summer 2022
  
## Followup from last week

## Topics

- node_link_data() is switching from having a dict input containing the input values to having a keyword argument for each input value. [#5899](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5899) makes the change and wonders which version the deprecation should be predicted to be removed.  It is currently configured to be replaced at v3.1 as suggested by @mriduls and @dschult because the first appearance will be 2.8.6 which is not a full minor release. The thinking is that to have 2.8 count, we would have needed it to be part of 2.8.0.  IOW v3.0 is too early to remove stuff deprecated in 2.8.6.

- The issue [#5904](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5904) asks how to handle sparse arrays with values 0.0 in a position. We've had this question before with some folks want the 0.0 to represent a non-edge and others wanting 0.0 to represent an edge with weight 0. They point out that a numpy array gets treated as a non-edge. But a sparse array contains the extra piece of info automatically. Perhaps we should add explicit descriptions of how to handle zero-value entries in a sparse array. The sparse array has a method `eliminate_zeros()`.

- Maintaining the [contributors list](https://networkx.org/documentation/stable/developer/about_us.html#contributors)
  * [Recent issue](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5917) indicates it's likely not very up-to-date
  * Do we want to maintain this separately? Other ideas:
    - Just let GitHub do it: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/graphs/contributors
      * Could link there from our docs or drop the list entirely
    - Replace the existing (out-of-date) list with the auto-generated one from `git log`
    - Other thoughts:
      * I personally don't like that people are adding links to their LinkedIn profiles

- More type [activity](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4014) on type annotations. We probably shouldn't let this hang forever. Since none of us are ideologically opposed to type annotations possible next steps could be:
    - Refocus the discussion; present a list of concerns that we have regarding the introduction of type annotations and how it should be done including points that have been solved (if their are any) and still open ones.
    - Invite some of the type annotation proponents to this meeting? If conversation on the PR is not being productive, perhaps a more direct approach will be?
    - Most recent PR related to types ([#5886](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5886)).

- [name=MridulS] Update on the GraphBLAS/CuGraph talk at SciPy 2022


## Long-term tracking items

- Post NX 3 release: A roadmap review.
  - better work with other packages. pygraphviz needs wheels -- getting there
  - GraphBLAS
  - We should have a "roadmap meeting" 
  - parallel backends? its different from backends, but maybe similar?
  
- Review public interface: For v3.0 should we be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- LaTeX interface
   - we could think of writing this to work with TikZ rather than adigraph
   - we could add checks on the images generated to the release process for any release candidates

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Looking at the Roadmap - what do we want on there?
  * Some ideas:
    - GraphBLAS in the performance section
    - Temporal networks, hypergraphs, other new graph types?
    - Make testing more comprehensive -- mixed node types, hashable nodes, etc. (hypothesis?)
    - Benchmarking suites to at least run locally some timing.

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - (Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.
    - Another one: configure CI to stop running tests from a previous commit when a new commit is pushed up (I think scipy does this, so can copy their config)

- [name=MridulS] I signed up on Tidelift to test it again, they have replied with a link to the [lifter agreement](https://support.tidelift.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406309657876-Lifter-agreement) and asked me if there are any issues with this. I will reach out again if there are no issues about this.
  * Hoops:
    * Prove Mridul is a maintainer
    * Review/sign the lifter agreement
  * The way we think this works:
    - We have a release on the conda-forge channel as well as PyPI - different income for the two
      * Depends on how tidelift's clients use these
  * Dan and/or Mridul will sign the agreement


## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
