# NetworkX Developer Discussions: March 11th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Jarrod, Dan, Kelly, Mridul

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX3.0 (5/31/22)

## News



## Topics

- [name=Mridul] IMSI tutorial catchup: how'd it go?

- [name=Jarrod] Fallout from networkx 2.7 release
  * The `importlib.machinery` issue
    - [name=Ross] I'm not convinced that this isn't a result of people using improperly packaged Python in random docker containers, but it has affected at least 2 users and the fix is very minimal. Would love to know what's actually going on here.
  * [2.7.1 milestone](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/milestones/networkx-2.7.1)
    * Aim for 2.7.1 today

- [name=Ross] When does the 3.0 dev cycle start?
  * i.e. when can we start opening PRs to get rid of deprecated functionality (can't wait)
  * Should hold off until 2.7 has settled, any required patches addressed

- [name=Ross] Benchmarking
  * We've talked about it before, but I'm planning on adding `asv` assuming no one else has already started working on this (Mridul?)

- [name=Mridul] Submit applications for Outreachy and GSoC.
    - Started the applications for both.
    - Current mentor roster: Dan, Ross, Mridul
    - We shouldn't aim for more than 1.5x student to mentor ratio.
        - One slot for Outreachy
        - 1-2 for GSoC
        - (this is assuming we get in)
    - Project ideas:
      * New layouts
      * Other graph polynomials
  - **NOTE**: Mentored project list should remain static during GSoC evaluation period. i.e. - don't add new projects until early March

- [name=Mridul] Respond to https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5326 ( nx.info )
  - [x] [name=Jarrod] Idea: deprecate `nx.info`, which is now redundant given `Graph.__str__`
      * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5341
  * [ ] Add a new method `Graph.describe` for more detailed info
    - name `describe` borrowed from pd.DataFrame API
    
- [name=Ross] Add `project_urls` in `setup.py`?
  * PR w/ proposal in pygraphviz: https://github.com/pygraphviz/pygraphviz/pull/399
  * Main benefit: it seems that pypi sidebar automatically includes info specified here

- [name=Ross] Activity in `scipy.sparse.csgraph` spectral embedding:
  * https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/15391
  * Related mailing list post: https://mail.python.org/archives/list/scipy-dev@python.org/thread/7JKMG6XSDGZRR2M5AVSHCA6KSLHVGOU7/

## Long-term tracking items

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.7 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

## Discussion
