# NetworkX Developer Discussions: April 4th, 2023

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Matt, Mridul, Dan, Kavish, Paula, Jarrod, Ross

## Welcome and news


## Important dates/deadlines

* SciPy conference earlybird registration deadline April 15
* GSOC ??  (viz?  graphBLAS backend?) - Need projects for the "mentored projects" page
  - GSoC Application Deadline: April 4, our ranking April 27
* NetworkX 3.1: Set for April 4. Our goal is to release a last version with Python 3.8 support.
  * rc1: Tuesday 3/30


## Follow-up from last week

* Feedback on the NumFOCUS lawyers' response to the memgraph folks?
  * Letter has been sent
  * they responded, and our lawyer drafted a re-response
  * Mridul told the lawyer to send it.
      * It's sent (as of 3/21/2023, no change to webpage)
      * They responded (3/28/2023) and the lawyers are handling it.

## Topics
 
 - Any PRs to merge before 3.1 release today?
   * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6621
   * ~~https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6617~~
   * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6615
   * ~~https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6620~~
       * merged, add to .git-blame-ignore
   * What to do with all the minor doc tweaks, test improvements, and mini-examples? Is anyone reviewing these?

 - How to decide what's chordal? https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6563
   * TODO: rossbar summarize discussion in PR
   
- Examples of subclasses:
  * ThinGraph in Graph docstring 
  * AntiGraph in example gallery (maybe also in flow?)
  * Idea: show a SimpleGraph subgraph example
  * `MultiDiGraph_EdgeKey` in `branching.py`. Matt is working on refactoring Edmond's algorithm and removing this subclass.

 - Should we add GH codespaces? https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/6531
     - No hurry in getting this setup just yet, to revisit this when we host the next new contributor sprint for networkx.
 
 - What does "depth" mean in the context of DFS trees?
   * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/6517
   * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/6479


- GSoC and Outreachy applicants reviews.

## NXEP topic of the week
  * Could we add the status to the documentation page with the list of NXEPs and their titles?  Maybe like: `NXEP 0 - Accepted - Purpose and process`. This might require changes to sphinx/autodoc. Any easy way to annotate within `index.rst` and still allow the autodoc links to be formed? 
  * This week, [NXEP 3](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/nxeps/nxep-0003.rst) The controvercial aspects seem to be:
    * There is a desire to not remove `create_using`
    * the complication of allowing a CustomGraph attribute
    * others? 
  * According to NXEP 0 we should be converting NXEPs that are implemented to the status: Final...  not Accepted. Perhaps a PR to do that for 0, 1, 2 and 4 is in order. 
  * todo [NXEP 4](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/nxeps/nxep-0004.rst) -- Adopting numpy.random.Generator as default random interface.  Update with decision not to change the default interface and then accet the NXEP.


## Long-term tracking items

- What else needs to be done with Teams changes? 
  What level for Paula? Anybody else to add? Last summer?
  We have a number of "owners" of the networkx account. They should be updated.
    * 3 proposed teams [not agreed upon yet]:
      - maintainers (with commit rights)
      - triage (with triage rights)
      - emeritus (no active rights)
    * vs keep current teams and governance documents and just update the role for core developer from triage to write  [decided to switch to write access] Updated the core team too and removed emeritus owners.

- Adopt `pyproject.toml`?
  * [This article was a nice overview](https://snarky.ca/what-the-heck-is-pyproject-toml/)
  * Since NX doesn't have build deps, there's no strong motivation to do so other than "other projects are doing it"
  * Potential "benefit" - store metadata/configs for additional tooling (e.g. type checkers, linters) in one place. [PEP 621](https://peps.python.org/pep-0621/) 
  * Jarrod reports that there may be many changes to the systems in the lead up to Python 3.12. So maybe we should delay consideration of changing to this until then. If we do adopt pyproject.toml, we may want to autogenerate it from the requirements file. For example, see what we did in scikit-image:
https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/blob/main/tools/generate_pyproject.toml.py
  * Jarrod reports that at the moment every config piece can't be put into `pyproject.toml`.  He tried it with skimage. Jarrod will take a shot at converting configs to pyproject.toml (ruff will be able to go there too)
  * goals: combine as much as possible. and make pyproject.toml autogenerated.
  * [Jarrod] Not sure if this is worth doing now. It looks like it would increase number of files and lines of code without adding any functionality.

- helpful to have a place for best-practices like nbunch, view vs dict, subgraph vs subgraph.copy()
  * nx-guides would be a good place for this!

- Keyword-only and maybe position-only input. Candidate subpackage to start changing code to keyword-only is the nx_pylab. (see [SLEP009](https://scikit-learn-enhancement-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/slep009/proposal.html) for how sklearn did this)

- We should try to automate the release process as much as possible so that we could remove a human from the release process. conda-forge has a very automated release system. Would a SPEC covering automated releases be reasonable?
    - Not clear what the advanatges of automating the release process would be. The process is [documented](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/release.rst) What would make this better?
    - Why would automating things further not cause problems?
    - That's agree to make sure a PR's title is helpful and descriptive before merging it.

- Review public interface: For v4.0 we should be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Now raise UserWarnings when users request features that are not available for the underlying edge-viz object (e.g. LineCollection)
    - Is there a better, more wholistic solution?
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - ~~(Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?~~
      - deprecated code removed

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.

## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org