# NetworkX Developer Discussions: May 2, 2025

[Previous meeting notes](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings) are avaiable. 
Please add News, Discussion and Topics below.
Meeting link: https://colgate.zoom.us/j/92619161786

### Aside about Meeting Notes:
Last long meeting note: [2025-04-11.md](https://github.com/networkx/archive/blob/main/meetings/2025-04-11.md). Now meeting notes are short.

## Meeting Info
- Meeting time Fridays 11-12 ET (3pm UTC) 
- [dispatching meeting](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) 1st Tuesday of the month 11:30-12:30 ET 
- [Publicly available analytics for our docs pages](https://views.scientific-python.org/networkx.org)

**In attendance**: Mridul, Erik, Dan, Aditi, Rick, Ross, Jarrod

## Welcome and news
Dispatch meeting is next Tuesday.

## Upcoming meetings and events
- GSoC requests for interns have been submitted. Google announcements expected May 8. Numfocus response happens after that -- so a few days at least before its all settled.
- [dispatching](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) Monthly meetings on the first Tuesday of each month.
- Scipy 2025 (Erik & Ralph)
  - Erik's dispatching talk accepted
  - Ralph / Rick nx-cugraph accepted as virtual poster
- PyData London two proposals (Mridul (accepted) & Erik (rejected))
  - June 6th (tutorials); main conference June 7, 8
- Scientific Python Summit May 11-14
- PyCon Pittsburgh May 14-22

### Action Items
- `panther_similarities` currently warns if e.g. the requested number of nodes is bigger than the total number of nodes. It then sets the input value to the total number of nodes and continues. I'd like to change that from a warning to an exception. Does that require a deprecation cycle? 
    - change warnings to exceptions
- Drawing: `draw()` and `display()`
    - proposal: we can put forward a new function display to make two separate ways of showing networks. To get there, let's each look at it and comment on github about what we find. If enough are ready to go with that, we'll go for that route.
        - looks like the new code is really much better in so many ways to the old. Would be a shame to have to keep all that old stuff if the new could replace it.
        - Fairly easy to allow dict inputs -- especially if we decide it's ok to add them to the graph -- but even without adding them to the graph.
        - Could make a separate helper function to morph "old" inputs to new-style inputs. It would be somewhat tedious, but straightfoward.  Need to decide how to handle inputs that really shouldn't be there -- like `clip_on` and `label` (to mean the text for a "legend").
    - How much backward breakage are we willing to do? e.g. is it OK to raise when using label for legends with msg telling to do legend themselves?
    - Timing: could release 3.5, then immediately merge this and hack on it to get draw to use the new code and also mimic the old API. 
        - probably not everything in old code would work -- but most would.
        - we'd work to raise any lost features with simple workarounds that don't require relearning old code.
        - We'd hide the old interface both in docs and in code through helper functions.
    - DECIDED to merge this PR -- and work on docs and combining of the two interfaces for v3.6
- dispatching of classes. Lets look at the [PR 7760](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/7760) and whether this is something we want to do.
- Updates on translations
    - Language switcher PR merged: https://github.com/networkx/website/pull/25
    - WIP PRs : Spanish and Portuguese(Brazilian)

<pre>

def mydraw(G, pos, with_labels,
           # node kwargs
            nodelist,           # ->node_visible
            node_size,           # * seq possible
            node_color,          # * seq possible
            node_shape,          # * seq possible
            alpha,              # ->node_alpha seq possible
            cmap,       #Removed
            vmin,       #Removed
            vmax,       #Removed
##            ax,
            linewidths,         # ->node_border_width seq possible
            edgecolors,         # ->node_border_color seq possible
##            label,      #Removed  # for legend
##            margins,    #Removed  # for axes margins
#            hide_ticks,
           # edge kwargs
            edgelist,           # ->edge_visible
            width,              # ->edge_width seq possible
            edge_color,          # * seq possible
            style,              # ->edge_style seq possible
            edge_alpha,              # ->edge_alpha seq possible
            arrowstyle,         # ->edge_arrowstyle seq possible
            arrowsize,          # ->edge_arrowsize seq possible
            edge_cmap,  #Removed
            edge_vmin,  #Removed
            edge_vmax,  #Removed
##            ax,
            arrows,     #Removed
##            label,      #Removed  # for legend
##            node_size,           # * seq possible (same as above node)
#            nodelist,
##            node_shape,          # * seq possible (same as above node)
            connectionstyle,    # ->edge_curvature    # seq possible
            min_source_margin,  # ->edge_source_margin seq possible
            min_target_margin,  # ->edge_target_margin seq possible
#            hide_ticks,
           # label kwargs (for edges and for nodes)
            labels,               # dict
            font_size,    #->size
            font_color,   #->color
            font_family,  #->family
            font_weight,  #->weight
##            alpha,               # *
            bbox,                # *
            horizontalalignment, #->h_align
            verticalalignment,   #->v_align
##            node_size,           # seq possible  (same as above node)
#            nodelist,
##            node_shape, #(not for edge labels)  (same as above node)
##            connectionstyle,     # seq possible (same as above edge)
##            ax,
###            clip_on,   #Removed (seems like we could add back -- but why?)
#            hide_ticks,i
        ):


